In recent years, few-shot action recognition has achieved remarkable performance based on spatio-temporal relation modeling. Although a wide range of spatial and temporal alignment modules have been proposed, they primarily address spatial or temporal misalignments at the video level, while the spatio-temporal relationships across different videos at the task level remain underexplored. Recent studies utilize class prototypes to learn task-specific features but overlook the spatio-temporal relationships across different videos at the task level, especially in the spatial dimension, where these relationships provide rich information. In this paper, we propose a novel Dual Motion-Guided Attention Learning method (called DMGAL) for few-shot action recognition, aiming to learn the spatio-temporal relationships from the video-specific level to the
task-specific level. To achieve this, we propose a carefully designed Motion-Guided Attention (MGA) method to identify and correlate motion-related region features from the video level to the task level. Specifically, the Self Motion-Guided Attention module (S-MGA) achieves spatio-temporal relation modeling at the video level by identifying and correlating motion-related region features between different frames within a video. The Cross Motion-Guided Attention module (C-MGA) identifies and correlates motion-related region features between frames of different videos within a specific task to achieve spatio-temporal relationships at the task level. Such a way enables the model to construct class prototypes that fully incorporate spatio-temporal relationships from the video-specific level to the task-specific level. We validate the effectiveness of our DMGAL method by employing both fully fine-tuning and adapter-tuning paradigms. The models developed using these paradigms are termed DMGAL-FT and DMGAL-Adapter, respectively. Extensive experiments demonstrate that both our DMGAL-FT and DMGAL-Adapter models achieve favorable results against other state-of-the-art methods on five few-shot action recognition benchmarks.
